Creative Coding Midterm project

Summary

The midterm project showcases skills and concept we have synthesized from our lessons,
and reflect the creative spirit of the designer. It should share your fluency in coding, what you like about coding, 
in the form of some narrative. We are always, as humans, telling stories. It is the universal constant.

The format, subject, and method are all up to you. 

Design Requirements

Creative Prompts

Narrative
Personal
Political
Fictional
Academic
Analytical
Organic
Procedural

Creative Goals

Ask Questions
Education
inform
challenge
play
conceal

UI Goals

…

Technical Requirements

An application in Processing coded in JAVA
Archived in GitHub; shared with the professor over Slack
Shared on OpenProcessing; designing for that platform.
An application which shows an understanding of Primitives, Variables, Functions, Classes, and Arrays.

Code requirements

All code must be commented.
All code from another source must be documented and significantly transformed from original code.
Violations of this will be ruled as academic dishonesty and dealt w according to syllabus. 
Please refer to syllabus for more information.


Scope of Work and Work Flow

Recommendations:
Spend only 1/2 time of schedule developing work and prototyping
Spend 1/2 time in iteration from user feedback
2x class hours should be the goal

Process

Come up with a set of user goals

When thinking about what you are deciding on for a project, ideation is key. What are things you would like someone to do when interacting with your work? What are principal actions/activities you find interesting as an end user when encountering software?
Try to come up with a series of actions that someone will execute using your program.

Example:

I want a human to look for an answer within a series of shapes on the screen, which are transparent at times, and moving randomly. 

When the user touches any object with the mouse pointer, the behavior will change in a way that will suggest keypresses or mouse gestures that will unlock the shape. A puzzle. 

Solving the puzzle presents rewards: an ecosystem shift in my program: light, color, information, the reveal which will lead user to make new choices. 

This bread crumb trail will have (n) choices that will allow the user think about each decision in a different way.

Principal Narrative Goal

What story are you trying to tell? Here are some possibilities:

Personal, Political, Fictional, Social, Environmental

Find a series of inspirations for your program. Cite your influences in your ideation documentation.

Example:

I really like the online game A Dark Room. 

It’s a simple game that has clicker UI but the narrative is always doing something new. 

There’s a momentum which takes place over hours of gameplay.

[link]

Document your workflow

A well tested method of designing is 

ideology
paper prototype
digital prototype (alpha)
testing
iteration (beta)
testing
final

Sharing and Submission of Project

begin w drawings of your ideation
write out classes in pseudo code before settling on a digital prototype to maximize time and effort in working
work in small digital prototypes 
develop functions classes independently and test to insure modularity of the project
share dm on Slack to professor

Follow the architecture of designing one of the following

Installation
Game
Education
Performance 

Weekly check ins on Slack

Draw out a scenario of what a user interaction would look like

Upload project to your GitHub and OpenProcessing by Friday 10/3 before class.
